President Muhammadu Buhari Monday refused to take the bold step to end the suffering of millions of Nigerians who are experiencing difficulties because of his government’s naira redesign policy. In his first public remarks to criticisms by Nigerians of his government’s disobedience to an order of the Supreme Court, President Buhari refused to categorically say that his government would obey the order. Instead, Mr Buhari said he did not “instruct the Attorney General and the CBN Governor to disobey any court orders involving the government and other parties.” Presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu made the president’s position known in a Monday evening statement. PREMIUM TIMES reported how the Supreme Court recently ordered the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Nigerian government to allow the continued use of both the old and new naira notes until December. Despite the ruling, banks and other businesses have continued to reject the old N500 and N1,000 notes, saying Mr Buhari and CBN governor Godwin Emefiele have not given them the go ahead. Mr Buhari refused to give such a go ahead in the Monday statement.   For weeks, Nigerians awaited the position of President Buhari and Mr Emefiele on the court ruling, given the uncertainty surrounding the validity of the old notes as a legal tender. Due to the uncertainty, many Nigerians have been reluctant to accept the old notes as a means of payment. This has worsened the already difficult situation for businesses experiencing poor sales. Penultimate Friday, the Supreme Court directed the central bank to extend the use of old banknotes until December 31. A seven-member panel of the court led by John Okoro unanimously directed that the CBN must continue to receive the old notes from Nigerians The court ruled that President Buhari’s directive for the redesign of new banknotes and the withdrawal of old notes without proper consultation was invalid. “The disobedience of orders of courts by the President in a constitutional democracy as ours is a sign of the failure of the constitution and that democratic governance has become a mere pretension and is now replaced by autocracy or dictatorship,” Emmanuel Agim, a member of the Supreme Court panel, said in the court’s lead judgment. Donate  TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 