 …for anyone thinking about their children, the long-term is palpable every single time you look into your child’s eyes. For it is not about ourselves that we are creating these scenarios, which we hope will provoke and inspire; it is for them. But the foundation has to be laid by us. What we do today, what we already did yesterday, and what we will do tomorrow will all combine to shape the Nigeria of 2060. An independent Nigeria hobbles into another year, turning 63. With elections around the corner, a rare opportunity has come for citizens to make their voice heard, casting a ballot for someone who will, in their eyes, lead Nigeria on a path of improvement. It is no longer news that Nigeria is facing a number of existential challenges, including unprecedented security threats, declining oil revenue, separatist agitations, large scale youth unemployment, growing crime rates, a wave of migration and brain drain, and severely underfunded health and education systems. What the future may unfold for Nigeria when it reaches 100 years of independence in 2060 and how will our action, and inaction, today shape the future we get? Scenarios for the Citizens – Which “Land” Do We Want? In  Which Way Nigeria – Citizen Scenarios to 2060 (CS60), a cohort of 40+ Nigerian CSOs and international experts banded together to create four scenarios for the country – Greenland, Land of Hustle, Land of Lost Hope and Bloodland. Scenarios are not predictions, but are plausibly created “memories of the future”. These sketches provoke thought and inspire hope. We start with some fundamental questions: The Finnish company, Capful, used its proprietary tool to map all of the inputs received from the experts to create the most plausible options for the country. A very brief overview of each scenario follows: How can we right this ship and move it in the right direction? It starts every morning in the mirror and requires the persistence and perseverance that comes from within. One thing that the scenarios make clear is that the quality and integrity of the 2023 elections will go a long way in shaping the trajectory and future of the country. Land of Hustle (On the Way)  Greenland (Turning a Corner) Land of Lost Hope (the Slow Descent) Bloodland (Into the Abyss) What Role Do Each of Us Play In This?  There is no shortage of talent, good will and perseverance in Nigeria. The challenges are immense though, with the vast majority of citizens fighting fires on a daily basis. Thinking of the long-term seems luxurious – it partially is. However, for anyone thinking about their children, the long-term is palpable every single time you look into your child’s eyes. For it is not about ourselves that we are creating these scenarios, which we hope will provoke and inspire; it is for them. But the foundation has to be laid by us. What we do today, what we already did yesterday, and what we will do tomorrow will all combine to shape the Nigeria of 2060. How can we right this ship and move it in the right direction? It starts every morning in the mirror and requires the persistence and perseverance that comes from within. One thing that the scenarios make clear is that the quality and integrity of the 2023 elections will go a long way in shaping the trajectory and future of the country. Chukwumerije Okereke is the Director of the Centre for Climate Change and Development at AE-Funai University and a co-initiator with Richard Dion of Which Way Nigeria – Citizen Scenarios to 2060. Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 