The Chief of Army Staff, Faruk Yahaya, says recruitment into the Nigerian Army should not be perceived as an employment opportunity but a call to defend Nigeria. Mr Yahaya, a lieutenant general, said this while flagging off a 10 km endurance run for candidates undergoing screening to qualify for the 84 Regular Recruits Intake at the Nigerian Army Battle Fitness Centre (NABFC), Falgore forest, Kano State. The Director, Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, made this known in a statement on Saturday in Abuja. He said that unlike other professions, recruitment into the Nigerian army remained a national call to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Nigeria. The COAS said the service required citizens who were not only physically and medically fit but also mentally and emotionally stable. According to him, it is not a job opportunity but a call to national service, as it requires selflessness and if need be, the supreme sacrifice and therefore, it is not an all-comers’ affair. Mr Yahaya advised the candidates to take the screening seriously, adding that only the best would emerge in the final enlistment. He also admonished personnel conducting the screening exercise to protect their integrity by avoiding any form of compromise.  Speaking during a brief on the ongoing Screening Exercise to the COAS, the Chief of Administration (Army), Wilson Ali, said the training area had been made conducive for the exercise. Mr Ali said there had been the progressive provision of infrastructure, such as electricity, potable water, upgrade of medical centre, dormitories and lavatories at the centre. He assured the COAS of a hitch-free screening exercise. “The COAS later embarked on a tour of the facility and paid a visit to candidates who were receiving attention at the medical centre.  “He was accompanied during the tour by Principal Staff Officers from the Army Headquarters, GOC 1 Division, Commandant Depot NA and Commander 3 Brigade,” Mr Nwachukwu, a brigadier-general, said. (NAN) Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 