The President of the Nigeria Cricket Federation, Uyi Akpata, has said more than one thousand kids will begin the fight for a place to represent each of the six geo-political zones at the finals of the 4th PwC-NCF national Under 17 Cricket Championship from Friday, January 20. “Nigeria’s Cricket is negotiating a critical cusp in its history and the National Under 17 Championship is a major factor in that. This weekend, over one thousand kids would begin their journey to stardom as the 4th edition of the event kicks off in Ibadan, Oyo State,” he said. Boys and girls representing Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Ekiti, and Oyo State will assemble at the Liberty Stadium and Government College Ibadan Cricket pitches to set the event off. Mr Akpata said that the event has now become the cornerstone for developmental Cricket in Nigeria in the few years of staging it produced some brilliant players some of whom have had national team call-ups. “This event forms the natural selection process for the National Under 19 teams and we have seen some players graduate to the senior national teams from here. So, this event means a lot to the federation, and thanks to our sponsors, PwC Nigeria, uLesson, and Bento Africa, we now have reasons to deepen our search for more talents courtesy of their support,” he added. The states in the South East will assemble their zonal elimination event at St. Patrick College, Emene, Enugu from Tuesda to Sunday, 24- 29 January 2023, where Ebonyi, Imo, Anambra, Abia and host Enugu State will vie for a place to represent the region at the National Finals later in February. The North-east and North-west will run their eliminations events from 26 – 29 January and 26 – 31 respectively. The North-east teams will lock horns at the Pantami Stadium in Gombe, where Borno, Taraba will join the host state to vie for slots. In the North-west, competing states include Kano, Kaduna, Kebbi, Jigawa, Sokoto, and Zamfara and the venue will be the Abdu Haliru Stadium in Kebbi.  Defending Champion in both categories, the South-south have scheduled their qualifiers to run between 29 January and 2 February where, Akwa-Ibom, Cross Rivers, Delta, Rivers, Bayelsa, and Edo will be competing for slots for the National Finals from Edo Boys High School in Benin City, Edo State. The Chairman of the Organising Committee of this year’s edition, Tayo Solwole, informed that care has been taken to ensure best practices for the game is meted out, in terms of officiating and the conditions for the kids arriving from different places to participate. “We don’t have another chance to make a first impression of how accountable we are to the kids when they show up for this event. So our plans to have the best of the game and a fair measure of hospitality extended to the players across the region is our key objective. And we hope to treat all players, winners or losers equally,” he stated. Donate  TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 