The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, says the commission is not contemplating any adjustment to the election timetable, let alone postponing the 2023 general elections. Mr Yakubu stated this at the presentation of the electronic copy of the 93,469,008 voter register to leaders of political parties on Wednesday in Abuja. He said that more than ever before the commission was more prepared for the 2023 general elections and had now successfully implemented 11 out of the 14 activities on schedule for the elections. “Already, substantial quantities of sensitive and non-sensitive materials have been deployed to various locations across the country. “The last batch of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) has been received while the ongoing configuration of the critical technology in readiness for elections will soon be completed. In the last two days, we commenced the airlifting of other sensitive materials to states across the country. “Already, some of the materials for 17 States in three geo-political zones have been delivered. Furthermore, 13,868,441 Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) have been printed, and delivered to states and are being collected by citizens as new voters or by existing voters who applied for transfer or replacement of cards as provided by law. He added that following the display of the voters’ register nationwide and the conclusion of claims and objections by citizens, a new national register of voters has been compiled. “In short, at no time in the recent history of the commission has so much of the forward planning and implementation been accomplished 44 days ahead of a general election.  “Therefore, the commission is not contemplating any adjustment to the election timetable, let alone the postponement of the General Election. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Presidential and National Assembly elections will hold on Saturday, February 25, 2023, while Governorship and State Assembly elections will hold two weeks later on Saturday, March 11, 2023. “The repeated assurance by the security agencies for the adequate protection of our personnel, materials and processes also reinforces our determination to proceed. “The 2023 General Election will hold as scheduled. Any report to the contrary is not the official position of the commission.”  Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 