The APC Presidential Candidate’s superlative and candid showing with the Nigeria Economic Summit Group on the 13th of January 2023 has naturally endeared him further to millions of voters across the country. A legion of former doubters including those who had based their opinions on skits put together by usually unserious minds who seek whatever they could twist in every speech, have now seen that they have been misguided. The momentum will ramp up even as we move closer to the election day, delivering what may turn out to be the cleanest landslide victory since Nigeria’s return to democracy in 1999. What struck me is the candidness of the conversation and the fearlessness of the speech. The economic thinking that attracted me to Bola Ahmed a long time ago, and thus made it easy for me to pledge my unallowed support in his quest this time, was there for all to see. The ideas that he had espoused in his many colloquia, including his writeups in Premium Times and other media, are truly etched in his mind. He comes to the table, not to be bamboozled around by the usual pretenders to intellectuality, but with his worldview, knowledge, drive, and dream for his nation. Of recent, I realized that Bola Tinubu, just like the great Nnamdi Azikiwe, having studied extensively in a certain era in the United States, must have returned to Nigeria with a fervour to right the wrongs, and to prove that there was nothing wrong with the black man. You cannot immerse yourself in the United States without forming a strong opinion which propels you to want to give direction to your own people – except you forget where you are from and decide to share in the American dream, or you are incapacitated politically. That Tinubu has been on this quest for decades, going by how long he has spotted his broken chains (which I prefer to call the infinity) traditional cap, is worth noting for the perceptive and attentive. This man is a gift to Nigeria and humanity. It is evident that in Tinubu we have a fearless, tested, experienced, urbane, businesslike, well-rounded, visionary candidate. He felt very much at home with the business community, who themselves can see by now, that Tinubu is their best bet for further prosperity and for the business community in Nigeria to remain the linchpin of Nigeria’s development, and to even play a larger role. But not only that. The delegates of the organized private sector present at the parley, or watching from the comfort of their offices, would have whipped out their scientific calculators (I remember the hp calculators bankers used to love), and worked out rates of returns on potential investments under the guidance and auspices of a business-oriented and transformative government of Asiwaju Tinubu, who continues to avert their minds to the sheer possibilities of our nation; a great nation waiting to soar, if only we could stay positive, attentive, cooperative, and connect our quest to a higher calling to lay a solid foundation for our children today, and those yet unborn. Tinubu’s vision is not only about Nigeria. From his trajectory, one can already see that he subscribes to that Chinese adage; ‘If your vision is one year, cultivate flowers; if your vision is ten years, cultivate trees; but if your vision is eternity, cultivate people’. Hands-down, his understanding of succession planning sets him apart. And his investment in raising leaders from among those he has identified over time, sometimes shames his peers who seemed to have simply concentrated on themselves and their children alone over the years. I had warned many of Tinubu’s traducers that his delivery and carriage will only improve, and that he will seem to age backwards, like the fictional Benjamin Button. I hope they are seeing with their eyes now. The meat – and there are several actually – of Tinubu’s discussion at the NESG parley could be itemized as follows: Unbiased minds will begin to see that the image of our dear nation is about to be repositioned for good under the leadership of this man, and the kind blessings and forbearance of the Almighty. Nigeria had floundered enough. May all the stars in the firmament align spectacularly for our redemption this time. ‘Tope Fasua, an economist, author, blogger, entrepreneur, and recent presidential candidate of the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), can be reached through topsyfash@yahoo.com.  Donate  TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 