The CBN’s assumption that Nigeria can quickly and easily transition to a cashless economy is misguided and fails to take into account the reality of the situation. While it is true that many countries around the world are moving in this direction, Nigeria is not yet ready for such a transition, and a more gradual approach is necessary. The country must first address the lack of access to digital payment methods, as well as the inadequate infrastructure and support systems necessary for a cashless economy. On the 26th of October 2022, the embattled Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele held a special press briefing. No one knew what the briefing was about; there were wild speculations and true to form, he shocked everyone. Nigeria, he began, had about N3.27 trillion in circulation, with N2.73 trillion of that (or 83%) outside bank vaults and in the hands of the public. This, according to Emefiele, was a trend that cannot be allowed to continue. The CBN seemed to think this was a huge anomaly. We will get to that soon but to do that, it is important to first understand the role that currency plays in the economy and why reducing the amount of currency in circulation can be problematic. Currency is a vital component of the economy, serving as a medium of exchange, a store of value, and a unit of account. In order for the economy to function effectively, there must be an adequate supply of currency available to facilitate transactions. The CBN Act of 2007 gives the central bank the mandate to maintain a strong and effective legal tender, as such decisions on the naira definitely falls within the CBN’s purview. This article is in two parts, the first part will go into a short economics of currency circulation and how that shapes or impacts a country’s economy. The second part will dive deep into Nigeria’s cashless economy, which is a central premise for CBN’s decision. How Does Currency Circulation Work? Contrary to Emefiele’s assertion that this “wholesome trend” cannot continue, there is no defined percentage distribution for a country’s currency in circulation. Milton Friedman is arguably the father of modern-day monetary policy and even he could not offer an ideal percentage distribution. There is no one-size-fits-all answer to this question, as the ideal percentage of a country’s currency in circulation that should stay in the hands of the public versus the banks will vary, depending on a number of factors, such as the size and structure of the economy, the level of monetary policy, the stability of the financial system, etc. The problem, however, is that if more money stays in the hands of the public as against the banks, it could spur economic growth as people have more cash to power transactions, but the flip side is that too much money can lead to inflation. Nigeria’s inflation is in record double digits and expert economists will tell you the reason for this has nothing to do with the cash in circulation. What happened here, in a similar fashion to other CBN policies, is that the CBN has found a scapegoat for how poorly it has managed our monetary economics. Currency in circulation is the new scapegoat, similar to how the CBN blamed an online FX rates aggregator for being the reason behind the declining value of the naira against the dollar. Nothing is surprising anymore from the CBN, especially one that likes to pick small fights, literally. Where Is the Financial Stability? The institution that should rightly influence the amount of currency in circulation is commercial banks, through innovative solutions in lending and borrowing to rightfully bring money in and then release them, but like so many people know, banking in Nigeria is nonexistent. Our Nigerian banks practice what people have called “shashe banking” and they hardly move the needle in the real economy. Let’s take a quick look at the Nigerian Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIIBSS) fact sheet to support this claim. There has been a steady increase in the rate of inactive bank accounts across Nigeria, showing that Nigerians are getting fed up with traditional banks and embracing smaller fintech alternatives. But the Nigerian banks don’t care, as they keep seeing record profits every year. In Nigeria, a country of over 200 million people, there are less than 60 million Bank Verification Numbers (BVNs), the unique identifier for financial service users in the country. In contrast, there are almost 94 million registered voters in the country, despite the high barrier to becoming a registered voter (a minimum age of 18 years). There is no such restriction for the BVN, yet we’re barely at the 56 million mark. This should already tell the CBN that there are too many people who have been disenfranchised by the financial system but do not seem to have had any adverse experience as a result. Why do you think this is the situation? Of course, they use cash and thus have had no need to carry out transactions through a bank. More than 30 million people with PVCs do not own bank accounts (probably more given that more BVN enrollees are less than 18). The performance of the BVN is so poor and lags behind all of its comparative databases, including the foundational National Identification Number (NIN), with over 90 million enrollees. Guess what? Out of the 56 million BVNs, less than 50 million are listed as active. This looks like a good premise to go back to Emefiele’s speech: “Furthermore, we believe that the redesign of the currency will help deepen our drive to entrench cashless economy (sic) as it will be complemented by increased minting of our eNaira. This will further rein in the currency outside the banking system into the banking system, thereby making monetary policy more efficacious.” It looks like he did not read the riot act. What drive? What cashless economy? There are no data to support the claim that Nigeria is a cashless economy. An economy in which 83% of your cash in circulation is not sitting in bank vaults cannot be cashless. Do not get me started on the eNaira (more on that later).   Minting the New Notes Another banger from Emefiele’s speech goes: “customers of banks are enjoined to begin paying into their bank accounts the existing currency to enable them withdraw the new banknotes once circulation begins in mid December 2022. All banks are therefore expected to keep open their currency processing centers from Monday to Saturday so as to accommodate all cash that will be returned by their customers.” Emefiele envisaged a cash exchange programme where people deposited their old notes and took new ones, so I guess he must have had a solid plan to ensure an equilibrium between the old cash and new cash. It turns out that he did not. We had N3.2 trillion in circulation, thus we can roughly assume that 70% of that cash was held in the redesigned N200, N500 and N1,000 denominations, as such if the CBN wanted to maintain the status quo, it was expected to mint at least N2.3 trillion worth of new notes. To understand how big an undertaking this is, the CBN minted just N1.3 trillion worth of new notes in all of 2021 – twelve months. And here, the CBN was promising a cash exchange programme that would have required the minting of N2.3 trillion worth of new notes in just three months! Of course, you can already see how impossible this would be; everyone could see it except the CBN. Apparently, the CBN had other plans. It “ordered” for 500 million pieces of new notes to be redesigned (or recoloured perhaps?). If we assume a near-equal distribution across the three denominations, this comes down to a total of about N320 billion worth of new notes. In another press conference, CBN said that it had collected N1.9 trillion worth of old notes since the currency redesign kicked in. So, the CBN collected N1.9 trillion from the market and replaced it with just N320 billion. Is anyone still wondering why the currency swap has been so messy and has led to demonstrations across the country? It sure looks like the folks at CBN don’t care about the forces of demand and supply, else in which world is N320 billion enough to substitute for N1.9 trillion? Anyway, of course, we have experts at the CBN collecting juicy and fat salaries, so they did not forget demand and supply, they had a plan. So what was CBN’s plan? To unravel their plan, keep these two words in mind – cashlessness and eNaira. Let’s start with the latter.  The whole currency redesign process was masked with politics from day one and I don’t think the CBN has done a good job of shying away from the political undertones that accompanied the policy. It is election season in Nigeria, so any major policy change is bound to be viewed with scepticism, which is why it is very important to stay apolitical and garner support across the aisle, so as not to alienate the folks across the divide. The Doomed eNaira What is the eNaira? Launched in October, 2021, the eNaira is a central bank digital currency (CBDC) and the CBN’s attempt to latch on to the disruption and progress being brought about by crypto and blockchain in the financial services industry. Again, like with most things CBN, they imagined that the launch of the eNaira will reduce the demand for physical cash. By all accounts, the eNaira has been a failure as it has faced low adoption, poor utility and failed use cases. So you can imagine the surprise when the CBN Governor mentioned the eNaira as one of the ways to cushion the need for cash. So many people have never used the eNaira because it never works and also does not make sense if you own a bank account. The eNaira does not make sense for the banked and the unbanked do not have access to the tools required to use the eNaira. Street hawkers and market men and women do not know what the eNaira and it’s current form cannot meet their financial service needs and expectations. So the eNaira was never an option at all, the CBN knows this, but it decided to turn a blind eye. What was the result? Disaster. Cashless Policy The CBN overestimated how cash reliant the Nigerian economy is. Too many critical sectors of the economy rely on cash. There are too many reasons for this – poor financial inclusion, lack of innovative payment solutions, the unreliability of digital payment systems, education, internet, lack of trust, smartphone penetration, etc. These are all valid reasons. It is not that people don’t want to switch to cashless systems, in most cases those cashless systems just do not work, and/or very few people understand how to use them. Here’s what I think happened at the CBN. Let’s go back to our NIBSS fact sheet (the last publicly available fact sheet is for 2021, so we will use that). The CBN must have looked at the fact sheet and seen that electronic payments were made more than 3.4 billion times in 2021. It must have seen that this number (along with the number for POS transactions) has been on a steady rise and it automatically assumed that this was a fair representation of adoption and market sentiment. It failed to look at the universal set of people making these transactions; they were revolving around the same people. In fact, if the CBN had hired me, I’d have told them that the rate at which we were welcoming new people into the financial system was very slow compared to the rate at which we were losing them. A simple Pivot Table analysis could have shown them this. Increasing electronic transaction volume does not equal increased electronic transaction users. Thus, the CBN should have known that “cashless” would not have made up for the N2 trillion cash deficit in the economy. There’s a N2 trillion need for cash in the economy right now and something has to be done about it. eNaira cannot solve it, cashless transactions cannot solve it. It is a sheer problem of numbers. Reducing the Demand for Cash   To reduce this N2 trillion demand for cash, there are numerous sensible things the CBN would have done before embarking on this currency redesign exercise. While the original intent for the currency redesign may have been good, it’s implementation has been wonky at best and amateurish at worse. Below are listed seven things that the CBN should have done before embarking on this venture: Conclusion The CBN’s assumption that Nigeria can quickly and easily transition to a cashless economy is misguided and fails to take into account the reality of the situation. While it is true that many countries around the world are moving in this direction, Nigeria is not yet ready for such a transition, and a more gradual approach is necessary. The country must first address the lack of access to digital payment methods, as well as the inadequate infrastructure and support systems necessary for a cashless economy. In conclusion, the CBN’s new currency redesign programme is a poorly thought-out approach that fails to take into account the realities of the Nigerian economy and the programme should be rethought, as it risks having serious consequences for the country’s economy. Instead of reducing the amount of currency in circulation, the CBN should take a more gradual approach and focus on addressing the underlying challenges that are preventing the country from transitioning to a cashless economy while ensuring that there is still an adequate supply of currency available to facilitate transactions. They should also focus on increasing access to non-cash methods of payment (like I listed above). Until Nigeria is ready for a full transition to a cashless economy, reducing the amount of currency in circulation could have damaging effects on the country’s economic growth and stability. Over here, we pray things do not fall apart due to the inability of the centre to “hold”, citizens do not descend into anarchy and that somehow, the Nigerian resilience powers through as we find a solution. Miracle Roch, a management consultant, writes from Abuja. He can be reached on me@miracleroch.com Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 