Nigeria’s two largest opposition parties have called for the cancellation of the country’s presidential election over allegations that the electoral commission, INEC, did not comply with the law in the collation and announcement of results. The PDP and LP made their positions known at a Tuesday press conference attended by their vice-presidential candidates, Ifeanyi Okowa and Datti Baba-Ahmed, respectively. “The election was a sham, and never free and fair,” said Mr Okowa of the PDP, a position corroborated by the LP’s vice-presidential candidate. Their main grouse is that INEC failed to upload the results of elections in the over 170,000 polling units onto a central server (IReV) as required by law. That step should have been done before the collation and announcement of results, they said. At the press conference, the two parties also demanded that the chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, must step aside over what they described as electoral irregularities and malfeasance. INEC has since replied, saying its chairman would not resign and that any party aggrieved with the election process should follow the law to air its grievances. At their Thursday press conference, the two opposition parties claimed they “monitored with dismay the travesty to democracy that was exhibited at the National Collation Centre of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).” They claimed that the results announced by INEC so far show some irregularities and accused the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, of deliberately refusing to “respect the pre-existing regulations that result of this election shall be uploaded on the INEC server through the Bio-modal Voter Accreditation System technology.” The PDP and LP together have so far scored about 50 per cent of the votes cast in the presidential election. But, they each trail the APC, the party leading in the presidential election results announced so far. The APC, and a majority of the other 18 parties taking part in the presidential election, have expressed confidence in the process and called on INEC to ensure it is not distracted. Read the full statement read by the two opposition vice-presidential candidates below. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WORLD PRESS CONFERENCE ADDRESSED BY XXX, DELIVERED ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2023 AT TRANSCORP HILTON HOTEL, ABUJA Fellow Nigerians, Members of the Press Executives and Members of the [ENTITIES MAKING THE STATEMENT]  All other protocols observed BACKGROUND   SIGNED Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 