The presidency has denied allegations that President Muhammadu Buhari and the people around him are scheming towards an interim government by causing chaos in the polity. There have been violent protests in many Nigerian cities as citizens scramble to access cash caused by the implementation of the Central Bank’s naira redesign policy. Apart from the cash scarcity, there is also petrol scarcity in many states across Nigeria. The presidency, in a statement issued by presidential spokesperson Garba Shehu on Friday, said those spreading the rumour of interim government are only causing panic. “Let us clearly, specifically and emphatically state that there is absolutely no truth to the claim that President Muhammadu Buhari is working towards an interim government or even worse, the truncation of democracy – democracy that he has helped to keep alive not only here at home, in West Africa but throughout the continent,” Mr Shehu wrote. One of those who raised the allegation of an interim government is Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna. PREMIUM TIMES reported that Mr El-Rufai said some persons around the president are scheming towards creating anarchy to pave way for an interim government to be headed by a retired general. Mr El-Rufai also said the promoters of such an agenda were opposed to the presidential ambition of Bola Tinubu, the candidate of the ruling party, APC. In his statement, Mr Shehu absolved President Buhari of any such plan. “The talk of interim government and truncation of democracy is way off the mark. Those who peddle it stand to gain nothing- nothing at all -but the creation of panic & the incitement of the public against the federal government.  “It is another dangerous dimension by people who are afraid that they may lose their elections,” the spokesperson said. Mr Shehu also stated that President Buhari remains in support of the presidential ambition of Mr Tinubu. Joseph Goebbels, the propaganda Chief of Adolf Hitler said ‘‘Repeat a lie often enough and it becomes the truth’’. This was in the 1930s, before the internet was birthed. Let us clearly, specifically and emphatically state that there is absolutely no truth to the claim that President Muhammadu Buhari is working towards an interim government or even worse, the truncation of democracy- democracy that he has helped to keep alive not only here at home, in West Africa but throughout the continent. The talk of interim government and truncation of democracy is way off the mark.Those who peddle it stand to gain nothing- nothing at all -but the creation of panic & the incitement of the public against the federal government.  It is another dangerous dimension by people who are afraid that they may lose their elections. Everybody is aware that there is a lot of pressure on everyone-all of us- the party, its elected officials, its candidates and law enforcement agencies following the way the currency swap has gone but the way to go is not to panic. There is indeed a problem and nobody will pretend that it doesn’t exist. It is precisely because the President is concerned with this problem that he opened several avenues for consultation with leaders and groups across the country, culminating in his broadcast to the nation on Thursday morning. In line with the speech, his clear and unequivocal directive is that the problem of cash supply must be addressed without delay.   While this is being done, there is no need to panic. We need to work together as leaders; as a people and as one nation. When panic hits, people go into overdrive. Shouting helps no one because no one can listen. The solution to the problem is not in sending Nigerians into confusion. Elections, just a week ahead, will hold and Nigerians will vote for the All Progressives Congress, APC, (and any others if they so wish) on the basis of their choice. Our people want progress, good governance, law and order and will not be swayed by the negative energy that is being expended against a well-meaning currency change. Finally, to state that: the President clearly has a favoured successor in Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is not in doubt. The fact that Tinubu has been opposed to the speed and timing of the Naira swap timetable does not mean he is against the idea of Nigeria becoming a cashless society. Of course, Tinubu does support a cashless society: for he is a man of the future. What should be made crystal clear to the doubters and the speculators and the untruth-tellers is that in no way was the naira swap “engineered” to keep the President in office beyond May 29. Nothing could be further from the truth. The President looks forward to handing over the reins of power to his elected successor. This will happen on May 29, 2023 as the Constitution requires it. The days of unelected Nigerian leaders, and those who outstay their welcome by unconstitutionally extending it, have gone. Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 