Did you want to know the major reasons why Nigerian music artists are more globally recognised than music artists in other African countries? If your answer is yes, then you need to invest a few minutes of your time to read this article to the end. Over the past years, Nigerian music Legends like Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, King Sunny Ade, and others have been global sensations selling millions of records to countries in Europe, America, and others. They can sell millions of records to a lot of English-speaking countries even when singing in their local language. At the moment, there are over 200 million people in Nigeria, and most of them are music lovers. So with the help of this large population, it is very easy for talented music artists in Nigeria to be globally recognized because of the millions of music streams, YouTube video views, and other key things that are needed to succeed in the international music space. You need to know that other African countries are not as populated as Nigeria, the large population allows Nigerian artists to succeed even more than their African counterparts in the international music space. Immediately one song begins to get millions of views on YouTube, Spotify, Apple Music, and other streaming platforms, it will begin to get global attention, then top the chart in several countries including the United States, United Kingdom, and other countries in Europe streaming platforms from there it will begin to get millions of views and streams than other music in the same category. Nigerians are known for music and they are music lovers. That’s why it is easier for Nigerian artists to succeed in the global music scene than other artists from other African countries. An average Nigerian will pay any amount to watch their favorite artists perform live, it is not so in other African countries. Music is a business in Nigeria which is why Nigerian musicians succeed more than other African countries globally.  At the moment, Nigeria is the only country in Africa that invests so much in its music industry and most of this investment comes from the private sector. The government does not invest in the music industry, unlike other countries. A lot of millionaires and billionaires investors in the Nigerian music industry invest in promoting young talented artists, investing in music promotion, and other important aspects that are needed to succeed in the music industry not just in Nigeria but all over the world. Several Nigerian music legends have been in the international music scene for a long time. The amazing publicity has helped a lot of Nigerian artists over the years and currently.  A lot of Nigerian artists now enjoy the good work of Nigerian music legends which they have done in the international music space even before they were born. Fela anikulapo-Kuti and King Sunny Ade are some of the Nigerian music legends that have been in the international music scene during their active years. Nigerian musicians are known for good music, at the moment millions of Naija Music and Music albums are released every week in Nigeria, especially on Fridays. Even though other artists from several African countries released music weekly as well, it can never be compared to Nigerian music quality. Over the years, Nigerian music legends have released a lot of good music that is still relevant today. This is one of the major reasons why Nigerian musicians are successful globally compared to other African countries’ musicians. The majority of Nigerian musicians over the years and currently focus on creating high-quality and good music for everyone to enjoy. That is why they succeed in several countries of the world including the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, and other world-class countries because it takes quality music to succeed globally even with little or no promotion.   It may not be so easy to succeed globally as an artist or record label executive in the international music scene if you don’t invest in music promotion and several international countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, and other countries so that you will be able to get international recognition. A lot of Nigerian musicians invest in music promotion in several foreign countries so they can get international attention or recognition. Although some of Nigerian musicians get international attention and recognition without promotion, it takes a lot of time and hard work to get to that level. Unlike other African music artists that do not invest in international music promotion Nigerian music industry has international Music promotion. Although it is expensive to promote music in several countries of the world, especially in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, and other popular and world-class countries of the world, with the help of your available private investor in Nigeria’s music industry it is possible to promote music in the international community. The Nigerian music industry is the biggest in Africa over the years and at the moment that is why they are successful globally you know more than other African country’s music industries. Over the past five years, there has been massive global recognition for Nigerian music artists. There has been a lot of collaboration from numerous music artists in several countries of the world including the United States, the United Kingdom, and more countries outside Africa. It takes hard work and the investment of a lot of Nigerian music legends to get here but the current and active artists work so hard to put themselves and the Nigerian music industry on the global stage. Now you know the major reasons why Nigerian music artists are globally recognized than other African artists. Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 