As Nigerians vote in the presidential and National Assembly elections, late arrival of the electoral officials and voting materials have been reported across the country. In Abuja, in the north-central zone, INEC officials had not arrived at Government Secondary School, Apo polling unit as of 10 a.m. The situation was the same at Polling Unit 057 in Dutse Sagwari at Dutsen-Alhaji in Bwari Area Council of Abuja. As of 9:31 a.m., there were no INEC or security officials on sight, as voters expressed concerns. As of 8.22 a.m., electoral officials in Kwali Central Registration Area Centres of Abuja were unable to deploy to their polling units due to unavailability of vehicles. Also, there were no INEC officials and voting materials as of 10 a.m. at some polling units in Kado Estate and Lugbe areas of the FCT, In Kogi State, north-central Nigeria, there were also issues of late arrival of INEC officials. As of 9:33 a.m., the officials had not arrived at polling unit 062 at Ganaja Township in Ajakuta local government area. In Niger State, as of 9:30 a.m., accreditation and voting were yet to begin at polling unit 026- Ung Nufuwa in Kotangora local government area. In Kwara State, were late to report at Polling Unit 041 in Tanke Bubu in Ilorin South lo9cal government area. In Anambra State, south-east Nigeria, officials were still being awaited as of 9:30 a.m.at Umudiana Amikwo Ward 6 Polling Unit of Awka South local government area. The situation was the same at Polling Unit 015 in Ward 10 of Onitsha North local government area where electoral officials were not on ground as of 9:30 a.m. Similarly, as of 11:25 a.m., electoral officials were yet to arrive at Polling Unit 42 in Ward 2 of Uyo local government area of Akwa-Ibom State, south-south.  Voters in Abuja expressed concerns over the late arrival of electoral officials and voting materials. Some voters at Polling Unit 007 in Wuse District Ward of Abuja criticised INEC for the late commencement of the elections, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. Henry Tersoo, a voter and an agent of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), blamed INEC for the late arrival of voting materials. “I am not exonerating INEC; I blame them. If they had done their homework well, this election should have started on time. “We do not want crowd, the plan is vote and go but now, see the crowd gathering,” Mr Tersoo said.   In Jalingo, Taraba State, northeast Nigeria, eligible voters decried the late arrival of election materials at polling unit 002 of Sintali Ward in Jalingo local government area. A voter, Waziri Ishaku, told NAN that he arrived at the polling unit as early as 8 a.m. but could not find voting materials. Mr Waziri, however, expressed optimism that the materials would be delivered safely and voting would commence successfully. Another voter, Aliyu Bawa, expressed his displeasure over the non-availability of electoral materials. Mr Bawa said that he arrived at the polling unit early but could not find election ad-hoc staff. According to a voting data released by Yiaga Africa, an election monitoring organisation, INEC officials’ arrival time by geo-political zones, indicates that by 7: 30 a.m., only 35 per cent of electoral officials were at their points of duty in the North-west region. In the North-east, the figure is 37 per cent, 33 per cent in the South-west, 23 per cent in the North-central, 16 per cent in the South-south, while the South-east has the lowest rate with six per cent. South-east Nigeria has witnessed violent attacks on INEC facilities and officials by gunmen said to be members of the secessionist groups. The attacks heightened in the days leading to the elections, with the gruesome killing of a Labour Party senatorial candidate in Enugu State. Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 