The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says its operatives monitoring the presidential and national assembly polls, have arrested some suspects engaged in vote buying in Benue state. The EFCC in a statement said it arrested a lecturer with the Sarwuan Tarka University (formerly known as the University of Agriculture), Makurdi, Benue State, with the sum of N306, 700 in various denominations stashed in his car. READ FULL STATEMENT Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, monitoring the presidential and national assembly polls made some arrests of suspected vote buyers. One Dr. Cletus Tyokyaa, a lecturer with the Sarwuan Tarka University (formerly known as the University of Agriculture), Makurdi, Benue State, was arrested at the RCM Polling Unit in Daudu, Guma Local Government Area of the state with the sum of N306, 700 in various denominations stashed in his car. Luck ran out on the suspect when he drove to the voting centre which was different from his polling unit and tried to run upon sighting operatives of the Commission. When asked about his mission at the center, Dr. Tyokyaa could not provide a coherent explanation, leading to arrest, and the search of his car revealed the money in various denominations. He was released after volunteering a statement to the Commission. The EFCC also arrested a man for alleged vote buying with N194,000 at Gidan Zakka polling unit, Goron Dutse area of Kano Municipal Local Government, Kano State. A party agent buying votes through bank transfers was also arrested in Abaji in the Federal Capital Territory, while two persons, Stanley Nsemo and Eno Amponsah were arrested in Calabar, Cross River State with the sum of $450 (Four Hundred and Fifty United States Dollars) and N156, 800 on suspicion of alleged votes buying. Earlier in the day, a woman with 18 voter cards was intercepted in a sting operation at Badarwa area of Kaduna, Kaduna State. The woman, one Maryam Mamman Alhaji, who is a member of the support group of one of the leading political parties, also had in her possession, a 17-page list containing names of eligible voters, their bank details and phone numbers as accredited under Badarwa/Malali Ward 01 and 08, Kaduna North Local Government Area of Kaduna State. She was nabbed after undercover operatives pretended they had voter cards and were desperate to sell them.  She is currently being grilled by operatives of the Kaduna Zonal Command of the EFCC, with a view to unravelling other members of her syndicate whom she claimed are also collecting voters’ cards and paying monies through PoS or direct bank transfers Wilson Uwujaren Head, Media & Publicity 25/02/2023 Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 