Ijaw leaders, under the auspices of the Ijaw National Congress (INC) and the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), have cautioned against the invasion of Ijaw communities by armed persons, suspected to be herders. They said there has been an invasion of communities and farmlands of Ijaw and indeed Niger Delta people by “these intruders who wield dangerous and lethal weapons”. They, therefore, called on the states in the Niger Delta region to properly enforce their anti-open grazing laws and protect lives and property. They also demanded that residents be guaranteed access to their farms and make a living without fear and apprehension. These remarks are contained in a communique issued on Wednesday by the National President of the INC, Benjamin Okaba. The communique was signed after a one-day joint leadership meeting of the INC and the IYC held at the Ijaw House, Yenagoa, Bayelsa. “These herdsmen have carried out gruesome killings of our brothers and sisters in their communities and farmlands across Bayelsa, Delta, Rivers and Ondo States, among others. “The gory tales of the barbaric and dastardly acts of these agents of provocation have headlined reports, especially in the past couple of years,” he said.  Among INC national officials in attendance were Atamuno Atamuno, first vice president; Ebipamowei Wodu, secretary; Philip Agu, treasurer; and Kenneth Odiowei, financial secretary. Also, IYC officers in attendance included Frank Pukon, national secretary; Ebilade Ekerefe, national spokesperson; Clever Inodu, central zonal chairperson; Kroma Eleki, deputy chairperson, Conference of Ijaw Traditional Rulers and Elders; Austin Enekorogha, secretary; Gabriel Benamaisia, clerk, National Representative Council; and Ebiseri A. J, deputy leader, NRC. Mr Okaba, a professor, recalled a recent incident on 24 January, when some suspected armed herders were reported to have brutally murdered a father and his son at their farm in Toru-Angiama in the Patani Local Government Area of Delta State. He said, “On the 25th of January 2023, a woman was butchered in her farm at Sabagriea community in Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area of Bayelsa State.  “Also in Bayelsa, suspected herdsmen, in February 2021, attacked a farmer and his son on their farm in Otuoke community, Ogbia Local Government Area. “The incessant violent invasions and attacks are designed to annex and control spaces and lands by these herdsmen and their masters with the sinister plot to subjugate Ijaw nation and the Niger Delta. “We strongly condemn in its entirety, all clandestine attempts laced with terrorist agenda by herdsmen and their masters to take over the bushes of Ijaw nation. “We are resolved to resist any attempts by strange elements to terrorise and chase away Ijaw people from their ancestral lands and heritage. “We support all anti-open grazing laws duly enacted by the Houses of Assembly of Niger Delta states and assented to by their governors to promote peace and sustainable development.”   (NAN) Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 