Nine days before the presidential election, the All Progressives Congress campaign train berthed on Wednesday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital, to a reception where its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, spoke on the need for unity, stability and non-violence in the country. The presidential and national assembly elections are slated for 25 February.   He urged the people of the state, particularly youth, to ensure the next election is hitch-free and devoid of violence. “Let us work hard and build a nation, a nation where peace, unity, stability, joy and happiness will reign supreme. We should be working together not killing one another,” he said. He promised to work to ensure increased security in the state and South-south region and provide effective protection for oil installations in the region.   “Asari Dokubo is a very bold and courageous worker. Brave and honest. Since I encountered him, he has been very consistent and straightforward.”  APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, condemned the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for reneging on its promise to field a southern candidate and work toward a southern president in 2023 after power would have resided in the north for eight years. “PDP does not know the essence of promise. When you make a promise, you keep it. On our part, we are honourable people. We have a full-fledged southerner as our candidate. What the PDP failed to do, we have done. What the party failed to give the south, APC has given the south. So as southerners, please the people of Rivers, play your part by voting APC. Let your vote speak for you.”   At the rally, the APC flag was handed over to the governorship candidate in the state, Tonye Cole.  Mr Cole promised the people a new government that is responsive to their yearning, urging them to vote for the party at all levels. The rally was attended among others by APC Vice Presidential Candidate, Kashim Shettima, Governors Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Dave Umahi (Ebonyi) and Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) as well as former Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, and his former Edo State counterpart, Adams Oshiomhole.   Donate TEXT AD: Call Willie - +2348098788999 